CSS is the language we use to style an HTML document.

What is CSS?
CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets
CSS describes how HTML elements are to be displayed on screen, paper, or in other media
CSS saves a lot of work. It can control the layout of multiple web pages all at once
External stylesheets are stored in CSS files

--CSS Syntax--

A CSS rule consists of a selector and a declaration block.

The selector points to the HTML element you want to style.
The declaration block contains one or more declarations separated by semicolons.
Each declaration includes a CSS property name and a value, separated by a colon.
Multiple CSS declarations are separated with semicolons, and declaration blocks are surrounded by curly braces.

In this example all <p> elements will be center-aligned, with a red text color:

p {
  color: red;
  text-align: center;
}

--CSS Selectors--

CSS selectors are used to "find" (or select) the HTML elements you want to style.

We can divide CSS selectors into five categories:

Simple selectors (select elements based on name, id, class)
Combinator selectors (select elements based on a specific relationship between them)
Pseudo-class selectors (select elements based on a certain state)
Pseudo-elements selectors (select and style a part of an element)
Attribute selectors (select elements based on an attribute or attribute value)
This page will explain the most basic CSS selectors.

The CSS element Selector
The element selector selects HTML elements based on the element name.

Example
Here, all <p> elements on the page will be center-aligned, with a red text color: 

p {
  text-align: center;
  color: red;
}

The CSS id Selector
The id selector uses the id attribute of an HTML element to select a specific element.
The id of an element is unique within a page, so the id selector is used to select one unique element!
To select an element with a specific id, write a hash (#) character, followed by the id of the element.

he CSS rule below will be applied to the HTML element with id="para1": 

#para1 {
  text-align: center;
  color: red;
}

The CSS class Selector
The class selector selects HTML elements with a specific class attribute.
To select elements with a specific class, write a period (.) character, followed by the class name.

In this example all HTML elements with class="center" will be red and center-aligned: 

.center {
  text-align: center;
  color: red;
}
